Victim after victim suffered; victim after victim died. They fell through the cracks of human decency and endured unimaginable pain. As you scroll through the victims, the faces of them seem so familiar yet so distant. They are just like your face, or that of your neighbor, your childhood friend. Yet, their faces bear so much pain and suffering, so unfamiliar to these faces you know.

Maybe it's the distance that separates us; perhaps it's the unfamiliarity that suggests to us our immunity from victimization. I mean, when would a sane person ever wake up and prepare for the trauma he or she would receive today; and would they even be able to prepare for traumas so immense? There is simply no way. The forces of nature–and society–does its magic on the individuals, or entire groups numbering in millions. They were the victims of their times. Resistance is futile. Chance is their only friend and not even a loyal friend.

It is hard to empathize with someone enduring such pain; and even if we did, the enormity of obstruction to escape such atrocities would simply force us out of fully comprehending the situation. Because it is hard to imagine, and hard to empathize with, we tend to pass judgment onto the victims that preceded us and assume our contemporaries would not fall into the same situation (at least not ourselves).

But we are the survivors. We do not know what it is like to be a victim. We are from the lineage of survivors. We know what the victors let us know, and do what they showed us to do: we read their works; we listen to them talk; we pass on judgments as they do. The unfortunate victims that preceded us, without being able to present their own case, were either put on alters or condemned to hell. We don't really know them, then how do know that we are not them? How do we know the future would not pass judgment on us like we them. Are we not all victims of our time?